Three women who came they've been held
as slaves in a home in London for at
least Thirty years have been rescued by
the Police. They're described as a 69
year old Malaysian woman, a 57 year old,
aged 69 year old from Malaysia, a 57 year
old from Ireland, and a 30 year old
British woman were all rescued. All three
women were highly traumatized and were
taken to a place of safety where they
remain. We have seen some cases where
people have been held for up to 10 years
but we have never seen anything of this
magnitude before. Thank you
It's, you know, it's kind of impossible to
believe that something like that could
happen. Well i didn't know nothing about 'til
i read it in the papers that he was like keeping
them as slaves or brainwashing them or
what, you know. But I didn't know nothing
about it. When I first heard this strange
and intriguing story, I wanted to
discover how this could have happened
right under our noses in the heart of
London.
It's only now, three years after the
women emerged from captivity, that I've
been able to piece together a full
account of this extraordinary story.
He's 'God', he rules the world, he's immortal
and he's our leader and teacher and we just have
to obey him otherwise we will die.
The first contact with the women was
made by a charity who rescued them from
a flat in Brixton in South London. We got
there about 11:05 because there was a
window of opportunity when the people
who weren't in the house.
And sure enough these women all come out
at exactly 11:15 sharp. Coming up
in the car somebody wanted to know why
the cars coming towards us had white
lights - That was Aisha - and the cars in front of us
had red lights. Do you want to know why that was.?
In the immediate aftermath none
of the agencies involved knew what they
were dealing with. So the women were
spirited away to Leeds where they could
be protected from the press and the public.
Yvonne Hall and Gerard Stocks run an
organization helping people who've been
trafficked and enslaved.
They took the three women under their
own roof and were the first to realize
the full extent of what had taken place.
The 69 year old Malaysian woman seen
here on the left is Aisha. The 57 year
old Irish woman on the right is Josie.
And the 30 year old is Katie. When she
first came, yeah she was 30 years old in
the way we measure age, but she wasn't.
She was much probably nearer to 10 or 11
or something like that, again I'm not a
psychologist but I didn't think that
would be accurate from what other people...
I would even go in further, i would say she was
10 or 11 in her ability to communicate
verbally, but in her ability to actually
do practical daily tasks, I probably drop
it back down to maybe six stroke seven.
It became clear that Katie had been born
in captivity and had never known any
other life
She had never been to school and had
only rarely left the house. After much
delicate discussion Katie finally agreed
to an interview. Did you ever go to the
dentist or the doctor?  No. Not allowed.
And why was that.?  I guess he, i guess
he didn't want anybody to know of my
existence, that was part of it, but he
also used to say that "NHS means
'Never Helps Self' " So we should, if we get
ill, you have to focus on him and then
we'll get better as if by magic.
Good evening and welcome to the BBC's News at 6
The couple suspected of holding three
women as slaves for more than 30 years
have been named as Aravindan
Balakrishnan and his wife Chanda. The BBC
understands that both were leading
figures in a far-left communist faction
based in Brixton in South London in the
1970s. Up in Leeds the women began to talk
about life in what they termed 'The
Collective'. They referred to Balakrishnan
as 'Comrade Bala' or A.B., and
revealed that he had had control over
every aspect of their lives. He had
threatened and terrified them claiming
to have an invisible all-powerful machine
at his disposal which he called "Jackie".
Tell me about Jackie, what does
Jackie stand for?  Jehovah Allah Christ
Krishna and Immortal Easwaran.
And what was Jackie?  It's Bala's mind-control machine.
Who controls everything in nature and
everything in the world. And what would he
say that Jackie would do to you if you
did the wrong thing or stood up to him
or.? Kill you or cause you terrible harm
'Jackie' came up a lot with all three
people. And even now I would
suggest that two of the three absolutely
are definitely very scared of Jackie, that
Jackie's going to take revenge at some point.
Are they leaflets about comrade Bala yeah?
Despite having voluntarily
left The Collective, Josie Herival has
spent the last three years on a one-woman
mission to clear Balakrishnan's name.
Thank you very much.  Are you and others
also fighting?, are you part of the campaign with
other people as well? Absolutely! We are showing solidarity with all of the people who are suffering under
the British State you know. US-led British state.
It's a slave of America.
Britain is a slave of America.
And how is comrade Bala?
No No! I'm not being interviewed, Ok, I don't
to be interviewed. She declined to take part in this film
declaring the BBC, "a tool of the
British fascist state".  In the one
interview she gave to Channel 4 News
in 2015 she gave her view of Jackie. What
I understand about it is, it's it's a
machine, you know, electronic machine
which helps people to do good you know.?
But he has talked about people dying as a
result of that machine - Yeah - Do you
believe that?  I do, yeah. That he had
the power to make somebody die.?
Yes.  With Jackie's help - Balakrishnan
controlled the world from inside the
flat. He took credit for all global
events, including wars and natural disasters.
Everything that happened outside, like
earthquakes and hurricanes, he claimed
was a consequence of a lack of
discipline or misbehavior by his
followers inside. We asked that space
shuttle Challenger it was meant to have
blown up when he said that people were
challenging him in the house, and the
shape was like a 'Y'. When the shuttle
blew up it was like a 'Y'. So he used to say
it's because people are VYING with him.
So the 'Y' there like that in the sky.
The Collective lived at numerous
addresses in South London over the 40
years of its existence. At one address,
a pizza delivery boy rang their bell by mistake.
So Bala said that this was the fascist
state trying to provoke him. What, by
bringing the pizza? Yeah by bring the
pizza and disturbing him and disturbing
what he was doing. So then the same day
there was an earthquake in Kobe
in Japan, which meant that, 'Kobe'
means 'gods door', that's what he said. So he said when there was a knock on god's door...
Sort of crazy, but yes. Go on, finish that thought,
so when there was a knock on god
door, then there's this huge earthquake
in Kobe to punish the fascist state for the
fact that the pizza delivery man
came to God's door. Bala's door?
Bala's door.
When I was asking her about some of the
strange theories that Balakrishnan had - she laughed -
she would laugh. - Yes she would have done. It's not because she thinks it's funny,
it's because she's really
embarrassed or really pressured. It's a
really important thing to know when if
you're asking a question to isn't it
really because a lot of people will see the
laugh and think, 'Oh! she thinks it's funny',
whereas really, she the, at,
she's in distress at that point.
Using Jackie as his tool, what was his plan, to become
the ruler of the world?  Yes, or he used to say, to
become the overt ruler of the world, he was
already the ruler of the world, but then
he has to become overt, that's what
he used to say. So he was the covert ruler
world at this point? Yes. Yep.
Inside the flat. Yep. And and and he
was going to becoming overt ruler. Yes. And
how was that going to happen, what was
going to happen that suddenly would mean
that the whole world would obey him.?
He never exactly said. He was going to take
over the universe after the world. And to
see if she could eventually take over
the world, I believe the country that
was mentioned was Brazil. She was going
to get Brazil as a starter to see if she
could control that okay. I know. So that
she was being primed for ruler of Brazil?
Yeah. Why Brazil, i've absolutely no idea. Does she know, had she been, does she know
much about Brasil? I don't know. I don't think so.
He walked into my life, and now he's taken over.
--- It all began in 1976 when Balakrishnan
founded his Maoist collective. The workers Institute of Marxism, Leninism, Mao Zedong
thought was on Acre Lane in Brixton
in South London
His group included his Tanzanian wife
Chanda,
her disabled sister and about 15 core
followers, most of whom like him was
student from Asia.
One of them, Aishah Wahab, has never
spoken to the media before. She had come
from Malaysia at the age of 24 to study
Quantity Surveying. I was really inspired
by him you know, and I thought he he was
great, you know, to have been able to know
clarify our minds as to what to do with
our lives really. Were you happy living
in The Collective Aishah.?  Yes I
thought every day was very interesting
and I was never ever bored. There's
always something new to learn. There's
something new to do I mean everything
was, I just can't imagine I would have
had a better life than that.
Also in the group were two middle-class
British women. Josie who was studying
Music when she met Balakrishnan. And
Sian Davis, a postgraduate student at the
London School of Economics. I was
particularly intrigued by Sian's story.
How did you know Sian.? I was at school
her. And what school was it.? It was
Cheltenham Ladies College. She was academic
I think she was quite profoundly
academic in a funny way, it wasn't
necessary the type of academia that
passed exams of a very high level at that
stage, but she was a deep thinker.
Oh well we used to see them down on the
market place. We used to have
our paper sales there, and other groups
did as well - it is a bit of a crowded market
- and these guys would turn up. And they didn't have a paper to sell, but they
used to hand out leaflets. And we used to
collect them because they were sort of like
the comic relief. And we popped down
the pub afterwards for a pint and we
just roar with laughter at what the Workers
Institute had to say. The Communist Party
of China and Chairman Mao are on the
verge of launching the final offensive
this year. Dismantled the old world of
colonialism, imperialism and hegemonism
and build a new world of Socialism.
And then in emphasis,
Eternal glory to our great leader and
teacher Chairman Mao Tse-tung upholds
proletarian internationalism. There we are.
I have one specific memory of her which is
probably the last time I saw her I can't
be sure of that, but I think it probably
was when she invited me for dinner. She
had her boyfriend Martin there.
And she was dressed in, dressed like a
Maoist, with the blue and the
collar and the whole dinner
we had the Chinese Communist
radio playing. And she talked to me,
well the way she talked to me I didn't know
who she was. She had become a communist
in the way she was talking to me, she she,
there was nothing of her coming through
at all by this stage that's what I would
say, it was quite scary. I didn't like
being there, it was too late. I had to
stay the night. She didn't want to
give me a bed because I wasn't a
communist but I got a mattress
eventually, and I'm afraid the next
morning I just ran away.
One of the things that is interesting is
that the Workers Institute was probably
unique among the groups of the far left
in that they didn't see themselves as
being in the business of creating a
revolution. They saw their role as
preparing the population in the
imperialist heartlands as they referred to
Brixton, London, Britain - for liberation by
the Chinese.
Did they put or set a date when the Chinese
Liberation Army was going to do this.?
End of 1977. And so very early in 1978
I had a conversation with several of them,
their members at the time, expressed my
disappointment that I had not been
liberated from capitalist oppression as
they had predicted. And they said that
the computer satellites got so good that
actually the Chinese do already control
everything in the world, but they realized
that you can't hand people Socialism on
a plate, they need to learn to struggle
for themselves. So they have actually
taken over everything but they're
leaving the appearance of Capitalism in
place so that people can actually have
this experience of liberating themselves.
The idea was that the Chinese Red Army
would come and liberate the UK within a
year,  that's what Bala expected, you
remember that? Yes. So you're waiting for
that to happen? Yes, it didn't happen.
It didn't happen did it?  Yes
I came across Aravindan Balakrishnan in
the mid-seventies. It was my formative
years as a police officer, I was a
uniformed police officer in Brixton.
And it really was an age of lots happening.
There was anti capitalist marches.
Whole environment like a cauldron of
demonstration. And in amongst all of that
appeared in these premises here in Acre
Lane what was called The Chairman Mao
Memorial Centre. And this was quite intriguing
even for those days and i decided to pay
them a visit one day. And I said to Balakrishnan "I'm going to be watching you"
And I'll be looking out every time I
come by what you're doing in here.
The Workers Institute were raided, that was
very very rare, we were all surprised
considering these guys had no presence
anywhere and where we just like a nuisance
to the authorities on a non-political
nature. We the police got a warrant and
it's very telling we got that warrant under
the Misuse of Drugs Act because you know
our belief was these people were on some
form of drugs and the place was raided
by police, no drugs were found and it was
boarded up and closed down. And while
their view is going to be 'yes this is
the capitalist state closing us down',
while I'm sorry sometimes it needs a
hard hand. Well we call it trumped up charge,
you see, the charge was about having
drugs, having and holding drugs and
consuming drugs as well.
So none of us even smoked cigarettes, so
we don't know anything about drugs. This
was seen as persecution, and as I
understand it that's when Balakrishnan
then withdrew into a much more almost
hermetic kind of environment with just a
very very small group of mostly female
acolytes
People would just say every so often,
whatever happened to the Workers
Institute? Because they suddenly
disappeared because they'd always be
there on the corner of Brixton, and then
suddenly disappeared and now we know
what happened - they went underground,
or what was left of them.
By 1980, The Collective was living in
hiding and consisted of Balakrishnan
his wife and her sister and seven other
women including Sian, Josie and Aisha.
Exploiting their isolation from the
world, Balakrishnan indoctrinated them
with increasingly strange ideas. Was it
your understanding that he was immortal?
Well he did say that and he did
repeat it again and again, and he also
showed how it was possible for him to be able to.
How did he show you that? Well you know
different things for example he never
believed in going to the dentist because
he said we should let the teeth drop naturally.
Hello again. Hello. And then by the
time you're a hundred years the teeth
will regrow. Pleased to meet you.
And then you have another set of teeth and
then when those drop you'll regrow again.
You see you've lost quite a number of teeth over the years.
We loose teeth. We wait until the teeth grow again.
Until the tooth grows on its own.?
Yes. It will grow on its own, are 100 or over yes
It will grow back on its own? Yes. Have you ever heard of that, we have a lot of teeth growing back.?
No. No. Well i've heard of it, It does happen, but I don't know if I'm going to be
even hundred years old, so.
Yeah yes you see sometimes its better to
keep what you have rather than wait
for. No No I don't loose my teeth on
purpose. No no no no. I don't know what
what our stories that let the teeth
fall by itself and it will grow up again. Who
who said this to you?  Somebody i know. Right.
I suppose again you know from the
outside it does sound like you were
brainwashed what's your response to that
Aisha.? I think it's a question of being
wash, I quite agree.
I think they did the line that we were
given is that we do need to be our
brains didn't need to be washed because
it was you know it was dirty or mucky,
you know, whatever, it had to be washed of
all ideas. When you bring, you want to build a new world, you can't bring the old into it,
the old you know into it so we have to chip
away the old and in place you can't
leave it blank
we have to fill the void
In 1983 Balakrishnan's socialist program
took a new and sinister direction. He
began an experiment which he called
'Project Prem'. When Katie was born did you
know who the father of the baby was.?  No.
I did ask Sian, i said, because at first
when she was pregnant, we didn't know she
pregnant, well I didn't anyway, so I said
"Sian, you know, are you pregnant?",
because her tummy was going, because,
she says "No", l said why is you body like
this? So she said. 'You know A.B. said
some people do have it like this, that's
gas in the body' and and you know it gets
bigger and bigger so that's it. And
when Katie was born, I was really shocked.
Do you think Sian believed that, did she
know she was pregnant.? Maybe she didn't, I don't know, maybe she didn't either, you know.
That must have been a real
surprise when, so she just had a big tummy
for whatever strange reason and then
suddenly a baby arrives.? That's right yes.
I think he used to say that I was the
product of electronic warfare.
His mind control machine Jackie
was meant to have got
Sian pregnant I suppose. Tell me what
name you were given at birth Katie.?
Prem Maopinduzi. The first name 'Prem'
is in Asian language it means 'Love',
and the second name is Swahili
it means 'Revolution'.
So he meant 'Love Revolution' and I hated that.
So you name is like an instruction. You must love revolution?
Yes. And we thought that when he rules the
the world that I meant to be
like a soldier for him or his mouthpiece.
'Project Prem' was an experiment in child
rearing intended to eliminate the
nuclear family.
Comrade Prem - as Katie was known - was
dressed in genderless clothing, was never
told who her parents were, and was raised
collectively by the group.
It's a new way of looking after a baby, its
not done before. I am so used to babies
being held and cuddled and carried and
things like that.
We were discouraged from doing those
things because -- I wasn't really clear
exactly what what the correct lines were
but it meant to, um, you see the baby's meant
to be solid without any encumbrances
from anywhere else, you see, so we're just meant
to stand by him, herself.
I suppose that was the idea you know
that when you hold somebody or caress
somebody, there's a bonding
going on you, there's a bond
between baby and mother. But there wasn't
that encouraged in Katie.
He was the only one who was meant to
cuddle me and no one else was meant to
because if I was to cuddle other people, he
used to say that that's being about being
a lesbian to cuddle other women. When
Katie was born there was plenty things I had
to question and this was one of them
about treatment of Katie, disciplining of
her, and there was a discipline on me as
well, there was once when Katie wets
herself, and she was only four, and you
know she was denounced and I was
denounced as well for letting her wet,
and I was so angry about it,
i really felt like running out the house
at that time but I didn't, I tried hard
not to because then I could see that if
I had gone out I had nobody outside.
I lost contact my family, I had no money, I
had no job and I might have been deported.
They were strange. If you see
them on the street, even shopping,
they never say 'hello'. They just
go straight in out, yeah. If I'm in
the garden, they're upstairs, if they see
anyone out, see - if you look up they close
the curtains, so you don't actually see who's looking.
What do you think they were
unusual neighbours? I think they were just
refugees, - and lived there.
Or they were hiding from somebody, never
speak. But one look like she looked like
English, but the others look like Chinese
or Filipino whatever. But one - she's tall
and rest short. The garden was overgrown,
it must have been 3 - 4 foot all the time
since them people left, and it was the same
with the front of the house. He would never
cut anything, he would always tie the
stuff back, just enough to get the wheelchair in & out.
And the whole garden was
covered in weeds.
Curtains were never opened at any time
at all front or back of house, the only time
you see them was sometimes at their back
when their little girl when she would turn round
pop the head of pop back down again.
Is it disturbing to you Peter to think that
there was a child being held captive
next door.? I mean I've been talking to
yourself now especially bringing a lump to the throat.
What aspect of it is upsetting for
you Peter? It's just the thought of what that
child has gone through at the time I
just didn't do anything about it. I mean
and i'm so sorry i let it. Again I didn't know
what was happening but if I did, I'd
definitely would have done something about it.
One night 1996 there was screaming in the
middle of the night and subsequently I
learned that Sian had tried to stab
herself with a knife.
And then on the early morning of
Christmas Eve - again there was
screaming and shouting in the middle of the
night, so I went downstairs with Aisha
who I was sleeping with and found Sian's.
Sian was lying on the floor and she had
been tied up her hands and legs were
tied and she was gagged.
And she had this piece of cloth in her
mouth - it was a sock or something
i don't know. And O & Josie were both holding
her down on the floor and they had tied
her up. And Bala and Chanda were both
shouting at her. She had tried to run out,
that's why she was tied up, she knew
things he was hard to live with me as I
was trying to escape, and then because
she couldn't escape that way that's why
she went out through the window
thinking she could escape that way she
had lost her mind by that time.
A.B. said that she fell, he started from the beginning to say that she fell you know because of the
nature of the bathroom, so I just stuck
to that.
Having fallen from the bathroom window
Sian was taken to hospital where she
fell into a coma and died seven months
later. There was an inquest after Sian's
death. And at that inquest you were asked
whether she had any children? Yes. And you
said no? No yes. Why was that your
response? Because A.B. said to do so.
Because we definitely didn't want
Katie to be taken away and then live a
life as of old, you know, and not participate
to build a new society.
At the time of the inquest, a journalist
visited The Collective and had an
exchange on the doorstep with Josie,
Aisha, and a third woman Oh Kareng, who was
also from Malaysia. the colloid bomber
policy we're calling open I expect on
you we speak the common ballot we don't
wish oh yeah are you playing in the fun
everything that people really good job
you guys seem pretty likely we should be
why one discrete actually please could
we speak to Col rosada
Sian died when Katie was only 14. After she died, did
life get better or worse for you.?
Life got better for me in a funny way I mean
because she was one of the worst, like
servants of Bala. So it was such a relief
with her not there. Because of his worse
enforcer had gone.? Yes his worse enforcer had gone. Yes.
Life may have improved, but the unbearable
tyranny of Project Prem continued.
He used to say that everything would go
against me if I had done wrong. So like
possibly the light shouldn't work,
or the taps shouldn't work because
everything is controlled by him, by
Jackie, his mind control machine. So if I
went to the bathroom and turned the tap on,
it shouldn't work because I had done wrong
and then when I went to the bathroom and
the tap DID work, Oh the tap! - your on
my side! Thank you! And then I kissed tap
and hugged the toilet when the flush worked
I used to look forward to the clocks changing
when they used to go forward in
March or go backwards in October because
that made things a bit different get
darker or lighter in the evenings.
In 2004 Comrade Oh who had been with Balakrishnan since the Seventies had an
accident in the kitchen. I think she
banged her head and she collapsed
and she was shouting 'call the
doctor'. Bala and Chanda kept harassing
her as she was collapsing and she was
ill and kept saying ... talking
talking talking to her and try to force
her to answer questions, and she couldn't
answer because she was she was dying
really and then they started saying to
her stop throwing a tantrum, nobody bangs
their head and refuses to talk and things
like that. But she was actually unable to
to talk because she was, she had a stroke
and then the next day she died.
By now two comrades had died and three
other women who had been with the group
since the 1970s had chosen to leave. The
Collective had dwindled to just six.
Balakrishnan, his wife Chanda, her sister and Katie, and
only two remaining followers, Josie and Aisha. Josie and Aisha were required to do
all the housework. And The Collective
depended financially on Chanda's carer's
allowance and her sister's disability
benefit. Balakrishnan continued to
frighten the few remaining members of
the household into staying. He also used to say
that, if I defied him and just wanted to go
out on my own, then either there will be
a lightning will strike me dead or blow up
because of spontaneous human combustion
That you would spontaneously combust? Yes. Or explode?
To me that idea that someone would
spontaneously combust if they left their
flat is complete nonsense to me in my
worldview. Now that you're out and living
your own life, can you see that that
sounds like nonsense.? Well I can see
that it can be as nonsensical, but
there is such a thing as spontaneous
human combustion. I've read about it in two
or three different places, so I have an
open mind about that
But as to whether A.B. can induce it as
and when we wants, that's a different issue.
In 2005 at the age of 22,
having never gone outside on her own
and despite believing she could be
killed by Jackie
Katie decided to take the risk and made
a break for it.
How did you get out of the house? By the
back door. And then just carrying lots of
bags and things. And somebody saw me and said, do you need any help your bags?
so I said no but i've run away from home,
so they said so I said what do i do?
they said go to the police station, so I
did. Tell me what happened when you entered
the police station? So they persuaded me to let
them call Bala and so then he came
Balakrishnan reassured the police that
all was well and took Katie back to The
Collective where she remained in
captivity for another eight years.
A.B. did say that he likes to discuss things and
query things, why things are done like
this or like that, but he says that if it's
gone more than two or three times and he
he resorts to, you know, slapping you, or
you know, on the face you see and
something sometimes other parts as well,
so he yes it did happen, it did took place.
So you were beaten? I was, Yes. Was
everybody beaten? I would have thought so. Yes
These are outrageous allegations
everywhere within every if anybody know or humiliate anybody know I dishing out
the thirty board he didn't do that to me
and yeah you never saw anything like no
I didn't
Every aspect of life in The Collective
was neatly timetabled and logged in
handwritten rotas, including Balakrishnan's
baths and meals
But over time the daily schedule evolved.
Previously only Balakrishnan and his
wife had had access to the television
but now all the comrades were allowed to
watch selected programs including the 6
o'clock news. Would you discuss the news
with him, would you discuss world events
with him? He would discuss with us. So he
would talk and you would listen.? Sounds like
there wasn't much discussion because
discretion means people exchanging ideas.
That's right. But actually he talked and
you listened naturally there's no
discussion about no
In her late twenties, Katie suffering
from undiagnosed diabetes began to
rapidly lose weight. Terrified that a
third member of The Collective might die,
Josie committed to memory a helpline
number she'd seen on the news.
the BBC action itv recorded information
Josie saved money in secret smuggled a
mobile phone into the flat and in
protracted discussions with the helpline
put together an escape plan it was
arranged that Katie and Josie would leave
when Balakrishnan and Chanda were out
shopping
So 11:15 sharp, we left, Josie and me
with our trolleys.
I had no intention of leaving you know in fact
leaving the collective for me was really
sort of like breaking my heart really
but I could see that she needed help
so you know she asked me to go with her
so I agreed to do it
i regret it very much now but at that
time I didn't think that it will all
blow up like it did
As Katie and Josie made their way to
freedom, Aisha choose to stay in the
collective and was there when Balakrishnan and Chanda came back
He was denouncing Katie and Josie and
saying that now they have jointed British
fascist state and all these things so
time for lunch were actually a good
lunch so we said we were seated sitting
down to have lunch when the police came
a to the police I come with them but as
I was coming out I saw Chanda and one
day I went and hugged them whatever I
you know my misgivings I have them leave
the other last time I saw the motion
that's our memories very sad for you
tree that very sad for you when you
remember that you look upset about it
emotion so if you've been with them for
forty years so and they were like family
really you
in the course of the police
investigation all charges against Bala
Krishna's wife Chanda were dropped but
new charges were brought against Bala
Krishnan himself it emerged that as well
as having had sex with Sean Bala
Krishnan had sexually abused two other
women over a period of years both of
whom had fled the collective by the
early 19th the first incident with MS a
was when she was called into mr. Bhalla
Krishna's bedroom it had never happened
before she didn't know why and without
warning he kissed her mr. Bala Krishnan
then began to summon is a to his bedroom
and where the sexual abuse that had
begun with a kiss then became a more
extreme in nature and became sexual
abuse involving oral sex forcing her to
perform oral sex upon him and thereafter
of sexual intercourse rape the serious
sexual abuse of that type continued and
involved in addition the defendant
ordering her to lick his anus she did as
she was ordered notwithstanding the
distress that plainly she was exhibiting
one of the women who testified in court
that when she tried to leave this woman
a were special scored in court when she
tried to leave
she said that Shawn and O and Josie and
you all held her down while Bala beat
her is that true
cause I don't think I was there I mean I
might have been there but not holding
her down like that for a B to beat her
son but in another way if that was true
I shall would you feel able to tell me
or would it be too shameful I would tell
you if I had done it you know I would
also be able to tell you why I did it
but it was against me to do it it was
against my instinct to do it you know so
that means she's lying she might have
she might have thought I was there
because all three of them you know if it
Shawn Yoshi and O was hooking her down
and I was there she might thought that
was also picking a ton I doubt that even
three of them there you don't need three
people to you know maybe just Shawn was
working it down because a B doesn't need
anybody to be holding anybody for her in
to you feel smack on the face
and from the spell of of the cult Haifa
is now 72 and is living in sheltered
housing what any aspect of fallows
political experiment with any aspect of
that success would you say I think that
the issue about loving somebody was not
your own I think that is the success
that every child has the right to live
properly to be loved to be cared you see
there's a contradiction Eliza because
Tyler's gone to prison for abusing Katie
yes but I mean we now know how cake
cakey felt a party and individual we
know not to do that
if you can't find a new weight and you
carry on with the old I suppose but
surely the old hasn't worked so we still
have to find what respective
katie is doing her best to leave the job
of her past behind she's attending
college and has recently moved out of
supported accommodation into a flash of
her own when she first came yeah she was
30 years old in the way we measure age
but she wasn't me she was much probably
nearly to 10 or 11 or something like
that but we've almost seen this journey
through the ages of thinking and I think
she's getting very close to a numerical
edge now